## Introduction

Almost every gadget around us uses software to operate, whether it be a hearing aid or an MRI machine. Software plays a
major role in making every gadget operational and useful for its respective task. A lot of resources go into making the
software work. But not enough attention is given to the software being safe, secure, behaving correctly, effects on
other parts of the system(s). Yet, still somehow software still works.

Some of the reasons for the software being insecure

-   Poor communications (between all parties involved)
-   Commercial pressures
-   Poor system design
-   Poorly defined system requirements
-   Inaccurate estimates of required resources
-   Unmanaged Risks
-   Sloppy Development Practices
-   Use of immature technologies
-   Stakeholder politics

and many more... <sup>[[1]](#references)</sup>

### Importance of Secure Software Systems

> What are the repurcussions of an insecure software or a software failure?

While it may seem that the software failure might not be a big problem in general, the reality is different. A couple of
events that can be pointed out are:

-   Injury & Loss of Life <sup>[[2]](#references)</sup>
-   Loss of financial assets <sup>[[1]](#references)</sup>
-   Loss of resources: organizational assets <sup>[[3]](#references)</sup>, the organization itself
    <sup>[[1]](#references)</sup>.
-   Loss of the software system: Denial of service
-   Loss of valuable or sensitive information
-   Loss of trust<sup>\*</sup>

## References

The references are provided as URLs, however, if the original content is for some reason not accessible then the
information is recorded as a copy of the original content under `docs/references`.

1. [Why software fails?](https://spectrum.ieee.org/why-software-fails) (2005) by Robert N. Charette
1. [Medical Devices: The Therac-25<sup>\*</sup>](https://www.cs.colostate.edu/~bieman/CS314/Notes/therac25.pdf) by Nancy
   Leveson
1. [Analyzing Software Failure on the NASA Mars Climate Orbiter](https://blog.cdemi.io/analyzing-software-failure-on-the-nasa-mars-climate-orbiter/)
   (2017) by Christopher Demicoli
